README.md, before:

# Teft Base

![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/dekodeinteraktiv/teft-base.svg) ![PHP from Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/php-v/dekodeinteraktiv/teft-base.svg)

Teft Base is based on Bedrock, a modern WordPress stack that helps you get started with the best development tools and project structure.

Much of the philosophy behind Bedrock is inspired by the [Twelve-Factor App](http://12factor.net/) methodology including the [WordPress specific version](https://roots.io/twelve-factor-wordpress/).

## Features

* Better folder structure
* Dependency management with [Composer](http://getcomposer.org)
* Easy WordPress configuration with environment specific files
* Environment variables with [Dotenv](https://github.com/vlucas/phpdotenv)

## Requirements

* PHP >= 7.0
* Composer - [Install](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#installation-linux-unix-osx)

## Installation

1. Create a new project in a new folder for your project:

  `composer create-project dekodeinteraktiv/teft-base your-project-folder-name`

2. Update environment variables in `.env`  file:
  * `DB_NAME` - Database name
  * `DB_USER` - Database user
  * `DB_PASSWORD` - Database password
  * `DB_HOST` - Database host
  * `WP_ENV` - Set to environment (`development`, `staging`, `production`)
  * `WP_HOME` - Full URL to WordPress home (http://example.com)
  * `WP_SITEURL` - Full URL to WordPress including subdirectory (http://example.com/wp)
  * `AUTH_KEY`, `SECURE_AUTH_KEY`, `LOGGED_IN_KEY`, `NONCE_KEY`, `AUTH_SALT`, `SECURE_AUTH_SALT`, `LOGGED_IN_SALT`, `NONCE_SALT`

  If you want to automatically generate the security keys (assuming you have wp-cli installed locally) you can use the very handy [wp-cli-dotenv-command][wp-cli-dotenv]:

      wp package install aaemnnosttv/wp-cli-dotenv-command

      wp dotenv salts regenerate

  Or, you can cut and paste from the [Roots WordPress Salt Generator][roots-wp-salt].

3. Add theme(s) in `web/app/themes` as you would for a normal WordPress site.

4. Set your site vhost document root to `/path/to/site/web/` (`/path/to/site/current/web/` if using deploys)

5. Access WP admin at `http://example.com/wp/wp-admin`

## Deploys

`composer install` must be run as part of the deploy process.

## Documentation

Bedrock documentation is available at [https://roots.io/bedrock/docs/](https://roots.io/bedrock/docs/).

[roots-wp-salt]:https://roots.io/salts.html
[wp-cli-dotenv]:https://github.com/aaemnnosttv/wp-cli-dotenv-command

Commit message:

Add link to Codeship project for deployment details.

README.md, after:

# Teft Base

![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/dekodeinteraktiv/teft-base.svg) ![PHP from Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/php-v/dekodeinteraktiv/teft-base.svg)

Teft Base is based on Bedrock, a modern WordPress stack that helps you get started with the best development tools and project structure.

Much of the philosophy behind Bedrock is inspired by the [Twelve-Factor App](http://12factor.net/) methodology including the [WordPress specific version](https://roots.io/twelve-factor-wordpress/).

## Features

* Better folder structure
* Dependency management with [Composer](http://getcomposer.org)
* Easy WordPress configuration with environment specific files
* Environment variables with [Dotenv](https://github.com/vlucas/phpdotenv)

## Requirements

* PHP >= 7.0
* Composer - [Install](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#installation-linux-unix-osx)

## Installation

1. Create a new project in a new folder for your project:

  `composer create-project dekodeinteraktiv/teft-base your-project-folder-name`

2. Update environment variables in `.env`  file:
  * `DB_NAME` - Database name
  * `DB_USER` - Database user
  * `DB_PASSWORD` - Database password
  * `DB_HOST` - Database host
  * `WP_ENV` - Set to environment (`development`, `staging`, `production`)
  * `WP_HOME` - Full URL to WordPress home (http://example.com)
  * `WP_SITEURL` - Full URL to WordPress including subdirectory (http://example.com/wp)
  * `AUTH_KEY`, `SECURE_AUTH_KEY`, `LOGGED_IN_KEY`, `NONCE_KEY`, `AUTH_SALT`, `SECURE_AUTH_SALT`, `LOGGED_IN_SALT`, `NONCE_SALT`

  If you want to automatically generate the security keys (assuming you have wp-cli installed locally) you can use the very handy [wp-cli-dotenv-command][wp-cli-dotenv]:

      wp package install aaemnnosttv/wp-cli-dotenv-command

      wp dotenv salts regenerate

  Or, you can cut and paste from the [Roots WordPress Salt Generator][roots-wp-salt].

3. Add theme(s) in `web/app/themes` as you would for a normal WordPress site.

4. Set your site vhost document root to `/path/to/site/web/` (`/path/to/site/current/web/` if using deploys)

5. Access WP admin at `http://example.com/wp/wp-admin`

## Deploys

`composer install` must be run as part of the deploy process.

See the CodeShip project [DekodeInteraktiv/teft-base](https://app.codeship.com/projects/294819) for up-to-date details.

## Documentation

Bedrock documentation is available at [https://roots.io/bedrock/docs/](https://roots.io/bedrock/docs/).

[roots-wp-salt]:https://roots.io/salts.html
[wp-cli-dotenv]:https://github.com/aaemnnosttv/wp-cli-dotenv-command
